[MUSIC]
COUNTIFS() is quite powerful and
can evaluate multiple sets of criteria
against multiple ranges in our
dataset in order to return
increasingly complicated calculations.
Let's explore how to use COUNTIFS
to evaluate multiple criteria
when counting values in problem 2A.
We're asked to count the number of
sales of the Super Soft Bulk two liters
product across three sales channels:
online, direct, and retail.
Manually filtering our dataset down
to calculate this would be cumbersome.
The product, let's select the product
column of our dataset as the first range.
Then let's select the value we've
entered in Charley 11 and change
the reference to an absolute reference on
both the column and row by hitting F4.
Next, we want to count
by sales channel and so
we'll select the sales channel
column of our dataset.
Lastly, let's count for the sales
channel values in column bravo or
the sales channel column
of our problem table.
Let's set COUNTIFS to work on this
more complicated counting exercise.
Let's validate sales of
the Super Soft Bulk 2 liters product by
the online channel in the data set.
We'll first filter down to
the Super Soft Bulk 2 liters product in
the product column of our dataset.
Within the resulting filtered data,
let's select only values for
the online sales channel in
the sales channel column.
We see here that there were indeed four
sales of this product via the online
channel.
We see then, that we can use COUNTIFS
to evaluate multiple criteria
across multiple ranges of data to
calculate summary COUNTIFS values.
This is a useful and powerful tool when
summarizing data in spreadsheet analysis.
Now, it's your turn to demonstrate your
increased understanding of COUNTIFS by
completing problem 2B.
[MUSIC]